Alrighty. Hey, everyone. This is Jared from Carmen Digital. And today, we're gonna be going over a pretty sweet little tool called Bunny CDN. So if you're not familiar with bunny CDN, Funny CDN is a content delivery network tool. That's what CDN stands for. And so it's really, really simple. And at the same time, it's really, really cheap. So not only is it crazy user friendly, it's also really, really cheap. I think I might spend maybe a dollar a month using it. I know that there's some simpler or some cheaper tools out there like Google, you might spend a penny a month if you use like Google Cloud but also there's an extensive more the the process to set that up is extensively more more complex. And so we're just gonna knock this out with Bunny CDN because it's really simple, and it's user friendly and it's not even that expensive. So if you're unfamiliar with the CDN, a content delivery network, A CDN is used to send your website to a person's computer or phone to the browser. Faster by actually putting a copy of their website closer to their physical location. And so that plays into the actual speed of the website being shown to them. And so today, we're gonna do this with Bunny, CDN, and with WordPress. One of the websites that I have on WordPress. Also, we're going to take it a step further and we're going to actually use a branded domain. So I'm actually gonna create a domain a sub domain called CDN and we're gonna set that up as well. So it's gonna be pretty slick. So let me go ahead and share this on Facebook and the Fedpreneur tribe, and then we will get started. So check out. Check out this cool tip on how to set up a simple Randed CDN using Bunny CDN. Cool. And I'm gonna try to throw this up on the podcast, so we will see how effective that is whenever as I'm going through this, I'm gonna try to explain it more. A little more in-depth. That way we can actually share this on the podcast as well. So I'll go ahead and share my screen And I've actually made my browser smaller so everyone can see the information clearer. I hope that is as effective as it can be. Alright. So we are on the bunny CDN website which was recently rebranded to bunny dot net. So the domain for that is bunny, b u n n y, dot net. But here on this page, if you don't already have an account, you're gonna want to create an account and then deposit ten dollars. That's the minimum buy in for getting started. Since I've already done that, I'm going to go ahead and skip that part and jump straight in the actual setup. So we're going to login. And once you log in, On the left hand side, you're gonna see your menu bar there. We're gonna click on pool zones And then under the submenu that opens up, we're gonna click on add full zone. So here we have some options set up. The first one is name. This is going to be a name that you can link to your website. So the website that I'm gonna be doing today is the veteran d b dot com website. And so I'm just going to use veteran BB. In the original origin URL, this is the actual website that you're doing it that you're setting this up for to include the protocol. So we're gonna type in h t t p s, semi colon slash slash veteran d b dot com. And so since this next option here is the tier, so we're gonna do the standard tier. Instead of the high volume tier because right now there's almost nothing on the website. Once this thing actually kicks off though, this high volume tier is definitely going to be right up my alley. Also, if you have large video files and image files, this is a good option as well. Below that, we have something called pricing zones. So these are the different areas of the world that you want to be able to use CDN for. And each one of these zones has different pricing. So right now, I only care about the United States for this project. So I'm actually going to disable all of these other ones. We have Europe and North America. I want that one. South America. I don't need that one, so click and that will disable it. Asia and Oceana, I don't need that. So click to disable. And then South Africa, I don't need that as well, so click to disable. And once you've selected all of your zones that you're gonna be using, just click the add pool zone button. And so bunny CDN will be doing all of the work in the background to create your pool zone. And so once this is done, we can begin the process of setting up our CDN, which is pretty slick. And now the page loads, and you can see it says you're almost there. Since we're using a WordPress website, we're gonna be skipping this section, but in the image that's here, you can see that the domain is replaced with the bunny CDN domain. So this is basically what's happening is that your website's being put onto all these different servers across the world and it's being it's using the bunny CDN as the actual domain for all of those files. Your JavaScript, your CSS, your images, your videos, everything that's tied to your website will show up exactly like this. And there's an example here as well that you can copy and paste. It shows static file URLs are currently pointed to veteran d b dot com. The new bunny dot net host name will show up here as veteran d b dot b dash cdn dot net. And you can clearly see that So whatever your host name is, that's what we're going to be working with. So since this is on WordPress, we already have a solution for that built into WordPress. There's a plug in already in the repository for that that's where we're gonna go. Now I'm going to navigate to my WordPress website. And on the left hand side, you're gonna see plugins. And when you hover over that, you're going to see add new. So click on that or If you're already in the plugins page at the top, click add new. And that's gonna pull up the WordPress plugin repository. In the top right hand corner, you will see a search box that says search plugins. Simply type in bunny, space CDN. And once this loads, you'll see the bunny dot net plugin here as the first item. Simply click install now. And once this installs, we'll jump right in to activate by activation by clicking the activate button. So while this is loading, we're gonna do we're gonna take things to the next step once this is ready to go. Alright. And that's finished activating. So on the left hand side, if you scroll down towards the bottom, you will see a carrot with the text bunny dot net. Click on that, and that'll take you to the setup page. So here we have all of the setup needed to set up your ADN. And since we have some advanced stuff happening here, we're doing more than just full zone. We're going to switch to advanced view by clicking on the link, switch to advanced view. And so this is gonna pull in a lot of information already on your website. So it's gonna pull in the site URL. It's going to exclude PHP files, and it's going to include your WP content folder and your WP includes folder. At the very bottom, you'll see disable CDN for admin user, and that's a checkbox. Go ahead and click on that because we don't want the CDN to be running when we log in as an admin. So at the top here, the CDN domain name this is where that b dash net b dash c d n dot net domain is going to go. But here's where we're gonna take things a step further. Back into the bunny CDN, On the right hand side clip, click on skip instructions. And here in the middle, you can see add custom host name. Here's where we're actually going to add our our custom domain and do all of our Voto. So that custom domain should be c d n dot and then plug in your name. Which in my case is veteran d b dot com. And then click add. And you can see that this has been added here. Now in order to actually use this we need to go into our c panel. Before we do so, you'll see here the text that says we need to set up our custom host name to be linked to this bunny CDN URL. Which is the all the other host name that's already there. So we're gonna copy that and then navigate to wherever our DNS records are located. For most people, that's going to be your c panel. If it's not your c panel, you're going to have to locate this As a as a developer and a digital agency, I don't use anything other than cPanel. It's too easy to find everything. It's too easy to navigate and and use. So if you don't have cPanel, you could probably check out Google or if you have specific questions and you need me to help you locate something. Just shoot me a message or an email, and we'll hop on a screen share and we'll go through it. So here inside c panel, we're going to go to the domain section and you can see this third section down is domains. You can also type in the search bar domain. And then you will see sub domains. So go ahead and then click on subdomains. Now we're at the create sub domain area. So in the stub domain text, type in CDN, and then hit tab And now you will see that the document root has been populated, and then go ahead and click create. Now if this was an actual CDN that we're using for a separate website, then we would want to make sure that this is in the public HTML folder. And you can see that I have community dot veteran d b dot com, and that's located in public HTML. Same thing with docs, and that's because those are actual websites that I'm putting out there as well. But this is just a link reference to another site, so it's not that big of a deal. But once that is created, you're gonna go to the cPanel home by clicking in the top left hand corner, the nine boxes, and that'll bring you back to the home. Next, we're gonna go to the actual DNS settings and set up the CDN domain. So we're going to go to the zone editor, which is also located in the domain section, but you can search by zone and it'll pop right up. So click on zone editor and this will pull up the zone editing area, the DNS editing area for your domain. Right here, only have one domain listed, which is veteran d b dot com. So I'm going to click on manage. Now, in cPanel, whenever you create a new domain, it's a new sub domain, it's almost always going to create an a record. But this is going to be specific to your settings of of your hosting provider. So check to see if you have an a record or c d n dot veteran d b dot com. And in this case, I have one. You can do that by typing in CDN in the search bar and see if it populates. You can also check if you have a c name record for that CDN sub domain. If you have an a record or a c net c name record, you will need to edit that. In my case, I have an a record, so I just need to edit this record. So I'm gonna do that by going to the actions section and clicking on edit. Once we've entered edit mode, I will change the type drop down to the name. And then once that is updated, I can paste in my record for that bunny CDN URL. Once that's in there, I can click save and you should get a success message. Once that is done, we're going to swing back to Bunny CDN. And then there is an SSL box where you can click enable. So go ahead and click enable. And then for now, go ahead and click get a free certificate and then click continue. So this is going to set up a free SSL certificate for your CDN domain. And once this is done, and now it says all done, now that this is done, there's another column called Force SSL. So we're gonna go to that CDN subdomain and click on that force SSL, make sure that that's activated. You can tell us so by the green bar Greenbox with a with a check mark in it. Now we are ready to go. So let's copy that host name, that CD and subdomain, and then navigate to WordPress. So here in the bunny CDN setup still, we're gonna paste in that domain here in the CDN domain name. Then scroll down and you will see API key. Now for this video, I'm not going to be putting in my API key. But I always put in my API key. So to get to your API key, you're gonna navigate back to bunnycdn, in the top left hand side, you'll see this little user icon with a king with a crown. Next to the word account. Click on accounts, and in the middle here, you'll see API. Simply click on the little eyeball copy your API key and then navigate back to WordPress and paste it in there. Once that is done, you can simply click on enable bunny CDN. And this is going to actually activate this CDN for your website. And there's no actual message that tells you that this is done, so the only way to verify is to actually go to the live website. So I'm gonna open the live website in a new tab. Once that loads, I'm still logged in inside that new tab. So what I need to do is open up a new browser. Which I will do that real quick and then change my screen sharing settings There we go. Just go ahead and share that And now you could see the veteran DB website where I am not logged in. So here I can right click and select inspect. What I'm looking for is I'm looking for the URL or the image. Once I locate this, I can verify that CDN is working. Right? Click inspect, and it pops up. Perfect. So where is my image? Looks like my image is set here as a background URL. So I'll go ahead and refresh a couple of times. Until that actually changes. Now, c b n's don't CDNs do not take effect immediately. They normally take time to what's the word it takes time for everything to go through and be set up and have your website put out there on multiple locations and whatnot. And so Don't expect this to to happen immediately and don't expect the improvements in speed to happen immediately as well. It's gonna take a little bit of time for everything to get pushed out into all those various locations. So that is something to be noted. There are some CDNs though that are really fast and actually setting all this up. But we did edit the DNS settings and those DNS settings are actually it enters a period of something called propagation. And so when you when you what's the word? When you change those DNS settings, you have to have time to propagate. So once that propagation period is done, that's when things start to take effect. So Let me refresh this again. So I just went back and updated my API key onto the site And once this is Once this takes effect, you'll be able to see it. There we go. It's taking a little longer here on the image, which is set as a background image, But as there's a script tag here, and you can see I've just selected and highlighted it, that the script source URL has already taken effect. It now shows my domain as c d n dot veteran d b dot com. And this is what you're looking for. This is how you can verify that everything is working. It's still gonna take time for everything to to to propagate to to be fully set up. But this is how you know that things are working. Though that is how you set up on a CDN. And so Let me swing back and see if there are any questions on the live video. I don't see any questions. I've I got mixed up somewhere. Hold on. Okay. No questions on the page. Cool. Cool. Cool. And checking the drive for posterity. No questions there either. Awesome. Alright, guys. Well, that is basically how you set obsidian. Ideally, you should see some improved speed on your website. And anytime you run some scoring audits to your website, you should see some improvements in that as well. Well, that's all that I have for this video. If you have any questions, comments, concerns, complaints, roll them down below, and I'll reply. Alright, guys. Take it easy. Until next time, happy coding.